README.md, before:

# Project tonit.dev

This project is the codebase for my homepage tonit.dev, where I run my blog and aquire customers for contract work. Everything is open-source, and I take best practices very seriously. Take a look and if you like what you see, let's work together!

## Technologies

- Next.js
- Asp.Net Core
- PostgreSQL
- Docker
- GitHub Actions
- SMTP
- Kubernetes

## Functionality

- Devcontainers - works the same in every environment
- REST API with CRUD operations and authentication/authorization
- Server-side rendering for lightning fast loading speeds
- Contact form with client-side and server-side validation
- Fully accessible for keyboard users
- Fully fledged CI/CD pipeline with GitHub Actions
- Self-hosted SMTP server for reliable email delivery

## How to run locally

Perform the following steps to run this project locally:

1. Clone the project.
2. Open the project in VScode.
3. Download the extensions "Dev Containers" and reopen the project in a devcontainer. For this to work, you need to have Docker Desktop installed on your machine. Click this [link](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/setup/install/linux/) for instructions on how to install Docker Desktop.
4. In a terminal window inside the devcontainer, run `dotnet watch`.
5. In a second terminal, run `npm run dev` and open the link in your browser. Whatever changes you make from here on out will instantly be visible in the browser.

## Database Management

The database is not really large. However, to ensure best practices, there is a database for development and production. Because the project is lead only by me, there is no need for persistent test data across multiple dev environments. This led to the decision to have the development database only locally inside the devcontainer, as opposed to publically accessible on the server.

The production database is hosted on a server via a kubernetes pod and is exposed by a ClusterIP. The credentials for SMTP and the database connection string are stored inside a [Kubernetes Secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/).

The database is code first. To find out more about the database structure, you can check out the migrations as well as the entities under `/API/Objects/`. Or you can run `dotnet watch` and take a look at the Scalar documentation of the project under https://localhost:5000/scalar.

## API 

For the API, we have Asp.Net Core with Scalar for testing and automated API documentation. 

I've had the pleasure of building APIs in a few different languages in my carreer, including Flask, Node.js, Laravel, and Rust. I think every language has its pros and cons, but in terms of Web APIs, Asp.Net Core is the clear winner for me. The Syntax is easy, the code has a high readability, the documentation is generated automatically with Swagger or Scalar, and the performance is unbeatable (actually, Rust does have a better performance, but I think it's way to complex to be used for a Web API with simple CRUD operations).

### Controllers and endpoints

#### LeadController

- SendResume
- BookAppointment

#### BlogController

- GetAllBlogPosts
- GetBlogPost
- Subscribe
- Unsubscribe

#### AdminController

- Login
- GetUserInfo
- CreateBlogPost
- DeleteBlogPost
- UpdateBlogPost

Commit message:

update readme and add loading indicator for resume email

README.md, after:

# Project tonit.dev

This project is the codebase for my homepage tonit.dev, where I run my blog and aquire customers for contract work. Everything is open-source, and I take best practices very seriously. Take a look and if you like what you see, let's work together!

## Technologies

- Next.js
- Asp.Net Core
- PostgreSQL
- Docker
- GitHub Actions
- SMTP
- Kubernetes

## Functionality

- Devcontainers - works the same in every environment
- REST API with CRUD operations and authentication/authorization
- Server-side rendering for lightning fast loading speeds
- Contact form with client-side and server-side validation
- Fully accessible for keyboard users
- Fully fledged CI/CD pipeline with GitHub Actions
- Self-hosted SMTP server for reliable email delivery

## How to run locally

Perform the following steps to run this project locally:

1. Clone the project.
2. Open the project in VScode.
3. Download the extensions "Dev Containers" and reopen the project in a devcontainer. For this to work, you need to have Docker Desktop installed on your machine. Click this [link](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/setup/install/linux/) for instructions on how to install Docker Desktop.
4. In a terminal window inside the devcontainer, run `dotnet watch`.
5. In a second terminal, run `npm run dev` and open the link in your browser. Whatever changes you make from here on out will instantly be visible in the browser.

Note: Sending out emails like for the resume or the appointment confirmation will not work, since the SMTP credentials are stored in a .env file. Checkout the [Postfix documentation][https://www.postfix.org/] for more information on how you can setup your own SMTP server that serves you better than any SaaS solution on the market. The amount of control you gain from a self-hosted SMTP server is massive.

## Database Management

The database is not really large. However, to ensure best practices, there is a database for development and production. 

The database is code first. Because the project is lead only by me, there is no need for persistent test data across multiple dev environments. This led to the decision to have the development database only locally inside the devcontainer, as opposed to publically accessible on the server. 

To find out more about the database structure, you can check out the migrations as well as the entities under `/API/Objects/`. Or you can run `dotnet run` and take a look at the Scalar documentation of the project under https://localhost:5000/scalar. If you want to connect to the PostgreSQL database, you can run `psql -h db -U postgres` with password `postgres` in a terminal. Postgres comes preinstalled with the Docker image of the devcontainer, so you don't have to install anything.

The production database is hosted on a server via a kubernetes pod and is exposed by a ClusterIP. The credentials for the database connection string are stored inside a [Kubernetes Secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/).

## API 

For the API, we have Asp.Net Core with Scalar for testing and automated API documentation. 

I've had the pleasure of building APIs in a few different languages in my carreer, including Flask, Node.js, Laravel, and Rust. I think every language has its pros and cons, but in terms of Web APIs, Asp.Net Core is the clear winner for me. The Syntax is easy, the code has a high readability, the documentation is generated automatically with Swagger or Scalar, and the performance is unbeatable (actually, Rust does have a better performance, but I think it's way to complex to be used for a Web API with simple CRUD operations).

### API endpoints

#### LeadController

- SendResume
- BookAppointment

#### BlogController

- GetAllBlogPosts
- GetBlogPost
- Subscribe
- Unsubscribe

#### AdminController

- Login
- GetUserInfo
- CreateBlogPost
- DeleteBlogPost
- UpdateBlogPost
